articles/howtos/make-template-decorator-ready.md, before:

---
uid: MakeTemplateDecoratorReady
---
# How do I make a Template, Decorator Ready?

Click [here](xref:Decorator) to find out more about Decorators.

This how-to will serve as an example of how to update a Template to allow Decorators to inject code during runtime. Please update it on your side according to what you need.

Open up the Template that you wish to become more extensible. You will find that in this how-to we will use what we've done in a [previous tutorial](xref:TutorialCreateModule) to demonstrate how to achieve this. Please interpolate on your end what is written here to make the necessary adjustments on what you're trying to achieve.

So we want to update the `StartupTemplate` to be extensible for new kinds of configurations installed by Intent Architect Modules.
Open up Visual Studio and open up the solution containing the `StartupTemplate` Template that you wish to update.

## Create "blueprint" (or contract)

First, we need a "blueprint" (or contract for enterprise developers).
You can create an abstract class or interface, depending on what you need, in one of two ways:
- Create it inside the current Module.
- Create a separate project to host this class/interface.

For simplicity, we will host this in the same module as what we're modifying.

Let's create an interface called `IStartupTemplateContract`. You may need to add the using namespace "using Intent.Templates;" at the top of the file.

```csharp
public interface IStartupTemplateContract : ITemplateDecorator
{
    string ConfigureCode();
}
```

Make note to copy the namespace and the interface name for what we're about to do next.

## Add Expose Decorator Contract Stereotype

Open up the Module project in Intent Architect and go to the `Module Builder` modeler.
![Module Builder Items](images/make-template-decorator-ready/ModuleBuilderItems.png)

Right click on the `StartupTemplate` item (as above) and add the `Exposes Decorator Contract` stereotype.

![Expose Decorator Contract](images/make-template-decorator-ready/TemplateExposeDecoratorContract.png)

Paste in the namespace and interface name in the `Type FullName` field.

> MyCompany.MyModule.Templates.StartupTemplate.IStartupTemplateContract

Run the Software Factory in Intent Architect and apply the change.

![Apply change](images/make-template-decorator-ready/ApplyExposeDecoratorContractChange.png)

In the `StartupTemlateParial.cs` file, you will notice the following changes being made:

- `IHasDecorators<MyCompany.MyModule.Templates.StartupTemplate.IStartupTemplateContract>` has been added to the class's inheritance list.
- The definition of that interface has been populated for you:

```csharp
private ICollection<MyCompany.MyModule.Templates.StartupTemplate.IStartupTemplateContract> _decorators = new List<MyCompany.MyModule.Templates.StartupTemplate.IStartupTemplateContract>();

[IntentManaged(Mode.Fully)]
public void AddDecorator(MyCompany.MyModule.Templates.StartupTemplate.IStartupTemplateContract decorator)
{
    _decorators.Add(decorator);
}

[IntentManaged(Mode.Fully)]
public IEnumerable<MyCompany.MyModule.Templates.StartupTemplate.IStartupTemplateContract> GetDecorators()
{
    return _decorators;
}
```

## Aggregate all the Decorators output

Let's create a method that will aggregate all the Decorator output into a single string in that same class:

```csharp
private string GetConfigureCode()
{
    return GetDecorators().Aggregate(new StringBuilder(), (sb, dec) => sb.AppendLine(dec.ConfigureCode())).ToString();
}
```

## Generate the injected code in Template

Now lets go to the `StartupTemplate.tt` file and make a call to this newly defined method:

```csharp
// [IntentManaged(Mode.Ignore)] // Uncomment to take over configuring services
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{<#= GetConfigureCode() #>
    services.AddMvc();
}
```

This will now allow a Decorator to use the interface being provided to inject new code into this Template.

Commit message:

Working on Create Decorator but also made tons of updates on the prev howto to

articles/howtos/make-template-decorator-ready.md, after:

---
uid: MakeTemplateDecoratorReady
---
# How do I make a Template, Decorator Ready?

Click [here](xref:Decorator) to find out more about Decorators.

This how-to will serve as an example of how to update a Template to allow Decorators to inject code during runtime. Please update it on your side according to what you need.

Open up the Template that you wish to become more extensible. You will find that in this how-to we will use what we've done in a [previous tutorial](xref:TutorialCreateModule) to demonstrate how to achieve this. Please interpolate on your end what is written here to make the necessary adjustments on what you're trying to achieve.

## Create "blueprint" (or contract)

So we want to update the `StartupTemplate` to be extensible for new kinds of configurations installed by Intent Architect Modules.
Open up Visual Studio and open up the solution containing the `StartupTemplate` Template that you wish to update.

First, we need a "blueprint" (or contract for enterprise developers).
You can create an abstract class or interface, depending on what you need, in one of two ways:
- Create it inside the current Module.
- Create a separate project to host this class/interface.

For simplicity, we will host this in the same module as what we're modifying.

Let's create an interface called `IStartupTemplateContract`. You may need to add the using namespace "using Intent.Templates;" at the top of the file.

```csharp
public interface IStartupTemplateContract : ITemplateDecorator
{
    string ConfigureCode();
}
```

Make note to copy the namespace and the interface name for what we're about to do next.

## Add Expose Decorator Contract Stereotype

Open up the Module project in Intent Architect and go to the `Module Builder` modeler.
![Module Builder Items](images/make-template-decorator-ready/ModuleBuilderItems.png)

Right click on the `StartupTemplate` item (as above) and add the `Exposes Decorator Contract` stereotype.

![Expose Decorator Contract](images/make-template-decorator-ready/TemplateExposeDecoratorContract.png)

Paste in the namespace and interface name in the `Type FullName` field.

> MyCompany.MyModule.Templates.StartupTemplate.IStartupTemplateContract

Run the Software Factory in Intent Architect and apply the change.

![Apply change](images/make-template-decorator-ready/ApplyExposeDecoratorContractChange.png)

In the `StartupTemlateParial.cs` file, you will notice the following changes being made:

- `IHasDecorators<MyCompany.MyModule.Templates.StartupTemplate.IStartupTemplateContract>` has been added to the class's inheritance list.
- The definition of that interface has been populated for you:

```csharp
private ICollection<MyCompany.MyModule.Templates.StartupTemplate.IStartupTemplateContract> _decorators = new List<MyCompany.MyModule.Templates.StartupTemplate.IStartupTemplateContract>();

[IntentManaged(Mode.Fully)]
public void AddDecorator(MyCompany.MyModule.Templates.StartupTemplate.IStartupTemplateContract decorator)
{
    _decorators.Add(decorator);
}

[IntentManaged(Mode.Fully)]
public IEnumerable<MyCompany.MyModule.Templates.StartupTemplate.IStartupTemplateContract> GetDecorators()
{
    return _decorators;
}
```

## Aggregate all the Decorators output

Let's create a method that will aggregate all the Decorator output into a single string in that same class:

```csharp
private string GetConfigureCode()
{
    return GetDecorators()
                .OrderBy(o => o.Priority)
                .Aggregate(new StringBuilder(), (sb, dec) => sb.AppendLine(dec.ConfigureCode())).ToString();
}
```

## Generate the injected code in Template

Now lets go to the `StartupTemplate.tt` file and make a call to this newly defined method:

```csharp
// [IntentManaged(Mode.Ignore)] // Uncomment to take over configuring services
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{<#= GetConfigureCode() #>
    services.AddMvc();
}
```

This will now allow a Decorator to use the interface being provided to inject new code into this Template.

Recompile this project to ensure the Module is built.

## Re-install that Module in your application

Open up the `Test.App` in Intent Architect, click on the `Modules` on the side panel and then on the `Installed` link at the top of the page.

In the Repository dropdown, select `My Module`.

![Installed Modules](images/make-template-decorator-ready/AppInstalledModules.png)

Locate the `MyCompany.MyModule` and click on the `Reinstall` button located on the right-side panel.

When you click on the Code Generation run, you should not expect any new files from being generated, since the change we made doesn't have any decorators yet.

This concludes this How-to. If you need to create a Decorator for this Template, please follow the How-to located [here](xref:CreateNewDecorator).
