articles/getting-started/take-a-tour/take-a-tour.md, before:

---
uid: getting-started.take-a-tour
---

# Take a tour

## Introduction

This tour covers the key concepts in Intent Architect at a high-level. Its aim is to introduce each concept without going into too much detail. Let's get started.

Once [installed and logged in with your account](xref:getting-started.get-the-application), you will be presented with the home view of Intent Architect. From here you have options to `Create a new application`, `Create a new module`, or `Open an existing solution workspace`.

![Getting Started](images/home-getting-started.png)

Previously opened solutions will be listed under the **Open recent** header for quick access later on.

## Applications

Applications in Intent Architect represent a _scope of code files_ that we want to automate. It could be a full-stack monolithic application, a microservice, or even just a single folder in which we wish to generate and manage files.

Applications are fundamentally composed of installed Modules, Designers and some high-level configuration settings. These concepts will be discussed later in the tour.

Creating a new application in Intent Architect can be done by clicking on the `Create a new application` button in the home view to launch the _Create application_ wizard.

![Create Application Start](images/create-application-start.png)

The first page of the wizard lists the available [Application Templates](#application-templates) in the selected repository (by default this will be Intent Architect's website [https://intentarchitect.com/](https://intentarchitect.com/) but could be a local directory or network location. [Learn how to change your default repositories here](xref:how-to-guides.change-user-settings)).

Here you can search and choose which application template you want and directly configure key settings like the Application's name, location and [solution](#solutions) name.

> [!NOTE]
> It is possible to create an empty application by clicking on the `CREATE EMPTY` button instead of `NEXT`. This would create a new application without any Modules or metadata installed.

### Application Templates

Application Templates allow specifying a pre-defined set of options of which Modules and Metadata (for [Designers](#designers)) to automatically install into the new Application during its creation.

To illustrate this, let's create a sample .NET Core Application using the `Clean Architecture .NET Core 3.1` Application Template. Following the steps we took above, select the template and fill out the Application's name, location, and the Solution name, then click `NEXT`. The wizard then moves to next page which displays the high-level _Components_ that make up the template.

![Application Template Components](images/application-template-components.png)

Each block is a _Component_ and each represents one or more Modules that will be installed into the new Application. Each Component may be included or excluded as required. To see exactly which Modules will be installed depending on our selection of Components, we can expand the Component list on the right side of the page.

![Application Template Modules](images/application-template-modules.png)
_This screenshot of the component list on the left of the screen shows exactly which modules would be installed from the selected Components._

To create the Application we then click on the `CREATE` button.

Intent Architect will download and install the Modules correlating to the selected Components, as well as create any default metadata that is required.

![Application Template Installation](images/application-template-installation.png)
_The modules downloaded in the example above are specifically related to the `Clean Architecture .NET Core 3.1` Application Template._

> [!NOTE]
> Although this example is targeting .NET, this process would work in the same way for other Application Templates that are designed for other languages.

## Application Settings

Once Intent Architect has finished creating the application and installing the selected components, it will open it automatically on the _Settings_ view.

![Application Settings](images/application-settings.png)

Here you will be able to rename the Application, change its icon, add a description and change the _Relative Output Location_.

Below the _Relative Output Location_, Intent Architect shows the full path into where code will be created. To open this location in the default file explorer, you can simply click on the full path _link_.

> [!NOTE]
> If the path doesn't exist yet, it won't be able to open.

## Modules

Modules are distributable artifacts which are the _building blocks_ of pattern reuse in Intent Architect.

Typically, the purpose of a Module is to generate and manage a set of code files in a codebase, usually around a particular architectural pattern. This could for example be the entities in our domain, simple bootstrapping files, ORM mappings, controllers in our Api, etc.

Modules have similarities with package systems such as NuGet, NPM, and Maven. However, where the primary objective of these systems is to facilitate code-reuse, the primary objective of Modules is to facilitate _pattern-reuse_.

Modules have versions and dependencies, and don't directly introduce any runtime dependencies. They can, however, be configured to introduce package dependencies if the designer of the Module so chooses.

![Application Modules](images/application-modules-installed.png)
_This example shows the list of Installed Modules in our sample application. The `Intent.Application.MediatR` Module has been selected, with its details displayed in the pane on the right._

> [!NOTE]
> When you select an installed Module, Intent Architect gives a view into the internals of that module (i.e. the Templates, Decorators, and Factory Extensions that it is made up of).

## Designers

Designers in Intent Architect allow you describe your application's design as visual models and hierarchical concepts. For example, Designers could be used to describe things such as: the entities in a domain, the services that make up the applications API, events that are published and subscribed, etc.

Designers are added to the Application when a Module that has designer configuration is installed. You can therefore choose which Designers you would like to use in your Application.

> [!NOTE]
> Designers can be created and configured by using the Intent Module Builder. Existing Designers can also be extended with new concepts, configuration and options.

![Domain Designer](images/designers-domain.png)
_An example from our sample application showing a Domain model inside of the Domain Designer._

Designers serve as a **blueprint** of your system. They can be used to describe any aspect of your Application. Typically, they are used to capture the following:

- **Codebase Structure** - Visual Studio Projects in .NET, Folder Structures in other languages, etc.
- **Entities** - Entities and their relationships to one another, Domain Driven Design (DDD) concepts (Aggregate Roots, Entities and Value Objects), etc.
- **Database Schemas** - Tables, Documents, Foreign keys, Indices, etc.
- **Services** - RESTful web services, SOAP services, security settings, transactional settings, etc.
- **Client Proxies** - Web client proxies, Synchronous Query Proxies, etc.
- **Eventing** - Messages, Topics, Queues, Subscriptions, etc. Often used to support Microservice architectures.
- **Workflows** - Workflow Diagrams, Process Diagrams, etc.
- **Front-End Structure** - Components, Routing, Modules, View Models, Views, etc.

## Software Factory Execution

The Software Factory Execution is the process that executes the installed Modules with the metadata from the Designers within an Application. The result is changes to the codebase which are **staged** before being accepted or rejected.

![Software Factory Execution](images/software-factory-execution.gif)

Intent Architect will not make changes to your codebase without your consent. The changes that are listed can be clicked on which will launch a Diff tool for you to view the changes between the files - like a _pull request_ from your robot developer friend.

![Diff Example](images/diff-example.png)
_An example diff of changes made to a C# interface that's managed by Intent Architect._

The Software Factory Execution is initiated from within an Application by clicking on the _Play_ button in the top nav-bar. The execution is typically kicked off after completing some design changes, or installing / updating Modules.

![Play Button](images/software-factory-execution-play-button.png)

> [!NOTE]
> When you create Modules, it can sometimes be very useful to be able to **debug** them. Intent Architect supports this by prompting you to attach a debugger when you click the _Bug_ button to the left of the _Play_ button before it proceeds to perform the Software Factory Execution.

## Solutions

Solutions in Intent Architect serve as a _view_ on one or more Applications. They have some basic settings and can configure which Repositories are available for the Applications.

An Application can only be opened in the context on a Solution, which is represented by an `.isln` (Intent Solution) file on the disk-drive.

![Solution Dashboard](images/solution-dashboard.png)
_A Solution dashboard with a single Application from this tour._

Additional Applications can be created from the Solution dashboard by clicking on the `Create new application...` button. Applications can also be filtered with the text field as well as _favourited_ by clicking the _Star_ in the top right-hand of an Application. They can be removed by right-clicking and selecting the `Delete` option.

## What's Next

### [Tutorial: Sample Pet Clinic](xref:tutorials.sample-pet-clinic.introduction)

Tutorial on how to recreate a sample application in Intent Architect to get familiar with building applications.

### [Tutorial: Create a Module (.NET)](xref:tutorials.create-a-module.introduction)

Tutorials on how to create a Module and install it into an Application.

Modules are the building blocks for how to automate your infrastructural and architectural patterns

Commit message:

WIP
Taken Jon's initial review comments and made the necessary changes.
The Tutorial file convention is changed slightly to accommodate possible different tutorials for different programming languages and the language in general is touched up to guide the developer into the sample tutorials by gradually building up understanding.

articles/getting-started/take-a-tour/take-a-tour.md, after:

---
uid: getting-started.take-a-tour
---

# Take a tour

## Introduction

This tour covers the key concepts in Intent Architect at a high-level. Its aim is to introduce each concept without going into too much detail. Let's get started.

Once [installed and logged in with your account](xref:getting-started.get-the-application), you will be presented with the home view of Intent Architect. From here you have options to `Create a new application`, `Create a new module`, or `Open an existing solution workspace`.

![Getting Started](images/home-getting-started.png)

Previously opened solutions will be listed under the **Open recent** header for quick access later on.

## Applications

Applications in Intent Architect represent a _scope of code files_ that we want to automate. It could be a full-stack monolithic application, a microservice, or even just a single folder in which we wish to generate and manage files.

Applications are fundamentally composed of installed Modules, Designers and some high-level configuration settings. These concepts will be discussed later in the tour.

Creating a new application in Intent Architect can be done by clicking on the `Create a new application` button in the home view to launch the _Create application_ wizard.

![Create Application Start](images/create-application-start.png)

The first page of the wizard lists the available [Application Templates](#application-templates) in the selected repository (by default this will be Intent Architect's website [https://intentarchitect.com/](https://intentarchitect.com/) but could be a local directory or network location. [Learn how to change your default repositories here](xref:how-to-guides.change-user-settings)).

Here you can search and choose which application template you want and directly configure key settings like the Application's name, location and [solution](#solutions) name.

> [!NOTE]
> It is possible to create an empty application by clicking on the `CREATE EMPTY` button instead of `NEXT`. This would create a new application without any Modules or metadata installed.

### Application Templates

Application Templates allow specifying a pre-defined set of options of which Modules and Metadata (for [Designers](#designers)) to automatically install into the new Application during its creation.

To illustrate this, let's create a sample .NET Core Application using the `Clean Architecture .NET Core 3.1` Application Template. Following the steps we took above, select the template and fill out the Application's name, location, and the Solution name, then click `NEXT`. The wizard then moves to next page which displays the high-level _Components_ that make up the template.

![Application Template Components](images/application-template-components.png)

Each block is a _Component_ and each represents one or more Modules that will be installed into the new Application. Each Component may be included or excluded as required. To see exactly which Modules will be installed depending on our selection of Components, we can expand the Component list on the right side of the page.

![Application Template Modules](images/application-template-modules.png)
_This screenshot of the component list on the left of the screen shows exactly which modules would be installed from the selected Components._

To create the Application we then click on the `CREATE` button.

Intent Architect will download and install the Modules correlating to the selected Components, as well as create any default metadata that is required.

![Application Template Installation](images/application-template-installation.png)
_The modules downloaded in the example above are specifically related to the `Clean Architecture .NET Core 3.1` Application Template._

> [!NOTE]
> Although this example is targeting .NET, this process would work in the same way for other Application Templates that are designed for other languages.

## Application Settings

Once Intent Architect has finished creating the application and installing the selected components, it will open it automatically on the _Settings_ view.

![Application Settings](images/application-settings.png)

Here you will be able to rename the Application, change its icon, add a description and change the _Relative Output Location_.

Below the _Relative Output Location_, Intent Architect shows the full path into where code will be created. To open this location in the default file explorer, you can simply click on the full path _link_.

> [!NOTE]
> If the path doesn't exist yet, it won't be able to open.

## Modules

Modules are distributable artifacts which are the _building blocks_ of pattern reuse in Intent Architect.

Typically, the purpose of a Module is to generate and manage a set of code files in a codebase, usually around a particular architectural pattern. This could for example be the entities in our domain, simple bootstrapping files, ORM mappings, controllers in our Api, etc.

Modules have similarities with package systems such as NuGet, NPM, and Maven. However, where the primary objective of these systems is to facilitate code-reuse, the primary objective of Modules is to facilitate _pattern-reuse_.

Modules have versions and dependencies, and don't directly introduce any runtime dependencies. They can, however, be configured to introduce package dependencies if the designer of the Module so chooses.

![Application Modules](images/application-modules-installed.png)
_This example shows the list of Installed Modules in our sample application. The `Intent.Application.MediatR` Module has been selected, with its details displayed in the pane on the right._

> [!NOTE]
> When you select an installed Module, Intent Architect gives a view into the internals of that module (i.e. the Templates, Decorators, and Factory Extensions that it is made up of).

## Designers

Designers in Intent Architect allow you describe your application's design as visual models and hierarchical concepts. For example, Designers could be used to describe things such as: the entities in a domain, the services that make up the applications API, events that are published and subscribed, etc.

Designers are added to the Application when a Module that has designer configuration is installed. You can therefore choose which Designers you would like to use in your Application.

> [!NOTE]
> Designers can be created and configured by using the Intent Module Builder. Existing Designers can also be extended with new concepts, configuration and options.

![Domain Designer](images/designers-domain.png)
_An example from our sample application showing a Domain model inside of the Domain Designer._

Designers serve as a **blueprint** of your system. They can be used to describe any aspect of your Application. Typically, they are used to capture the following:

- **Codebase Structure** - Visual Studio Projects in .NET, Folder Structures in other languages, etc.
- **Entities** - Entities and their relationships to one another, Domain Driven Design (DDD) concepts (Aggregate Roots, Entities and Value Objects), etc.
- **Database Schemas** - Tables, Documents, Foreign keys, Indices, etc.
- **Services** - RESTful web services, SOAP services, security settings, transactional settings, etc.
- **Client Proxies** - Web client proxies, Synchronous Query Proxies, etc.
- **Eventing** - Messages, Topics, Queues, Subscriptions, etc. Often used to support Microservice architectures.
- **Workflows** - Workflow Diagrams, Process Diagrams, etc.
- **Front-End Structure** - Components, Routing, Modules, View Models, Views, etc.

## Software Factory Execution

The Software Factory Execution is the process that executes the installed Modules with the metadata from the Designers within an Application. The result is changes to the codebase which are **staged** before being accepted or rejected.

![Software Factory Execution](images/software-factory-execution.gif)

Intent Architect will not make changes to your codebase without your consent. The changes that are listed can be clicked on which will launch a Diff tool for you to view the changes between the files - like a _pull request_ from your robot developer friend.

![Diff Example](images/diff-example.png)
_An example diff of changes made to a C# interface that's managed by Intent Architect._

The Software Factory Execution is initiated from within an Application by clicking on the _Play_ button in the top nav-bar. The execution is typically kicked off after completing some design changes, or installing / updating Modules.

![Play Button](images/software-factory-execution-play-button.png)

> [!NOTE]
> When you create Modules, it can sometimes be very useful to be able to **debug** them. Intent Architect supports this by prompting you to attach a debugger when you click the _Bug_ button to the left of the _Play_ button before it proceeds to perform the Software Factory Execution.

## Solutions

Solutions in Intent Architect serve as a _view_ on one or more Applications. They have some basic settings and can configure which Repositories are available for the Applications.

An Application can only be opened in the context on a Solution, which is represented by an `.isln` (Intent Solution) file on the disk-drive.

![Solution Dashboard](images/solution-dashboard.png)
_A Solution dashboard with a single Application from this tour._

Additional Applications can be created from the Solution dashboard by clicking on the `Create new application...` button. Applications can also be filtered with the text field as well as _favourited_ by clicking the _Star_ in the top right-hand of an Application. They can be removed by right-clicking and selecting the `Delete` option.

## What's Next

### [Tutorial: Use existing modules to quickly make applications](xref:tutorials.create-a-sample-app.introduction)

Tutorial on how to use existing Intent Architect modules to help you quickly build a C# application.

### [Tutorial: Create a Module (.NET)](xref:tutorials.create-a-module.introduction)

Tutorials on how to create a Module and install it into an Application.

Modules are the building blocks for how to automate your infrastructural and architectural patterns
